 

  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
  

“ie

fact, been many times theoretically laid down by thougi a
Southern life. Handicrafts were taught in the days of Slaven n
well-managed plantations. But Tuskegee 1s, we b @ nd
chapter in the history of the Negro, and in the ri of the knot
problem we have ever faced. It not only makes “a carpenter of a
it makes a man of a carpenter.” In one sense, therefore, it is of great
value than any other institution for the training of men and women th
we have, from Cambridge to Palo Alto. It is almost the only one ¢
which it may be said that it points the way to a new epoch in a large
area of our national life. 4

To work out the plan on paper, or at a distance — that is one thing
For a white man to work it out— that too, is an easy thing. For;
coloured man to work it out in the South, where, in its constructive
period, he was necessarily misunderstood by his own people as well aS
by the whites, and where he had to adjust it at every step to the strained
race relations — that is so very different and more difficult a thing that
the man who did it put the country under lasting obligations to him, a

It was not and is not a mere educational task. Anybody could teach
boys trades and give them an elementary education. Such tasks have
been done since the beginning of civilization. But this task had to be
done with the rawest of raw material, done within the civilization of
the dominant race, and so done as not to run across race lines and social
lines that are the strongest forces in the community. It had to be done
for the benefit of the whole community. It had to be done, moreovel,
without local help, in the face of the direst poverty, done by begging, af d
done in spite of the ignorance of one race and the prejudice of the other.

_No man living had a harder task, and a task that called for more
wisdom to do it right. The true measure of Mr. Washington’s success
is, then, not his teaching the pupils of Tuskegee, nor even gaining hs
support of philanthropic persons at a distance ie this — that evel
Southern white man of character and of vlan has been won tc
cordial recognition of the value of the work, even men who he |
still hold to the conviction that a mere book edueaiatt for the Soutl

blacks under present Hiatt
conditions is a positi ; T |
of the efficiency of the Ham positive evil. This isa demaa

demonstration of th

 
 
   
 
 
  
